Access rights on asset manager (#446)
akeneo/pim-helpcenter: content/md/permissions-settings/access-rights-on-asset-families.md

---
id: access-rights-on-asset-families
themes: permissions-settings, manage-your-assets
title: Set rights on your **asset families**
popular: false
ee-only: true
related: what-about-assets, manage-your-assets, build-your-user-groups
---

# The basics

Once you have [created your 1st asset family](manage-asset-families.html) and [created your user groups](build-your-user-groups.html), you can begin to define for each of these user groups if they will be able to display/edit this asset family and its data.

# Rights depending on the asset family

You can define which user groups can view or edit an asset family, its properties, its attributes and its assets.

For assets, we have 2 levels of access: the view right and the edit right.

::: warning
It’s not possible to hide an asset family.
:::

## The edit right
The edit right means add, edit and delete rights.  
If a user belonging to a user group has right to `EDIT` an asset family, he will be able to:
*   Edit the properties of this asset family
*   Add, edit and delete the attributes of this asset family

> *   Add, edit and delete a record of this asset family

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*   Add, edit and delete assets of this asset family
```

If you want almost all your user groups to have the view rights, click on `VIEW` in the columns title and all the user groups will be ticked with `VIEW` rights. And then, add the `EDIT` right to some user groups.
:::

:::warning
At least one user group should have `EDIT` rights on an asset family to manage the permissions on this family.
:::

# Rights depending on the locales
It is possible to define for each [user group](what-is-a-user-group.html), on which [locale](what-is-a-locale.html) the asset family data can be viewed or edited.

For assets, we have 2 levels of access on locales: the view right and the edit right.

::: warning
It is not possible to hide a locale in an asset family.
:::

## The edit right
The edit right means add and edit rights.  
If a user belonging to a user group has right to `EDIT` an asset family, he will be able to:
*   Edit the asset family labels for a locale
*   Edit the asset family attributes labels for a locale
*   Edit the asset values for a locale if the attribute is localizable

## The view right

> If a user belonging to a user group has right to `VIEW` on a locale, he will only be able to display the asset family data on this locale (properties, attributes, records) and that's all.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a user belonging to a user group has right to `VIEW` on a locale, he will only be able to display the asset family data on this locale (properties, attributes, assets) and that's all.  
```
